
No restrictions on the format for submission.


Software for Genetic Data Analyses & Database Resources G3:
Genes|Genomes|Genetics offers an article format for high quality reports
describing novel software for genetic data analyses and database resources.
The editors of G3 recognize that modern genetic research requires specialized,
efficient, and well-documented software, as well as access to high quality
data.

The Software and Data Resources (SDR) format is succinct and follows a
semi-structured template (outlined below) designed to make it easy for readers
to understand the possibilities offered by the software and resource being
presented.

Criteria for acceptance in this category includes the usefulness (i.e. is the
tool/resource potentially useful for a broad community of researchers and not
redundant with existing tools?), innovation, accessibility (including
availability and quality of the documentation) and, in the case of software,
scalability. Data resources must be made freely available in a public
repository, and in the case of software distribution we encourage the use of
Open Source. Please see the Data and Reagent Policy for full details.

SDR manuscripts have a limit of 2500 words, excluding title, abstract, tables,
figures, boxes, acknowledgments and references. Content will vary depending on
the nature of the software or database resource; however, articles are expected
to adhere to the following structure.

Note: additional subheadings as appropriate are permittedâ€”the below points are
not designed to be a list of complete subheadings, but rather topics to be
covered.

1. Title: Include the software or database resource name and make reference to
the type of problem(s) addressed with the software or database.

2. Keywords: For software, include the relevant models, algorithms and
language; for database resources include the organism, type of genetic data as
well as phenotypes available.

3. Abstract: ~ 150 words.  Concise summary of the results.

4. Introduction: Limit of 500 words. The introduction should describe the
significance of the software or resource presented, discuss novelty, provide an
overview of the software or resource, and describe how researchers can access
it.

5. Methods: For database resources, the authors should describe important
details about the database, including the organisms, type of data available,
the protocols followed in data collections and data pre-processing if any. For
software, the authors should describe key elements of the algorithms
implemented, and are expected to provide both the source code as well as
examples illustrating the use of the software.

6. Results and Discussion: For software, the authors are expected to present a
few examples that demonstrate the use of the software and benchmarks. Ideally,
the examples should be simple. We encourage the use of boxes with scripts
supported by a narrative. Benchmarks carried under more realistic situations
than the one presented in the examples are also encouraged.

For database resources the authors are encouraged to present a limited set of
analysis (e.g., PC analysis, a GWA study) that describe key features of the
data.

7. Web resources: List websites providing access to the software or database
and with documentation. Software or data must be accessible via a publicly
accessible repository such as GitHub, figshare, Dryad, Zenodo, etc. G3 has
partnered with figshare to provide a author submission portal, which authors
are welcome to use. More details here.

8. Acknowledgments

9. Footnotes

10. Literature Cited

11. Supplemental data (optional): Include scripts, additional results and
additional resources to help the reader to get started with the software or
database. Authors must use a  publicly accessible repository such as GitHub,
figshare, Dryad, Zenodo, etc. G3 has partnered with figshare to provide a
author submission portal, which authors are welcome to use. More details here.
